- Cryptography is a very hard subject for most developers.
Thankfully, those that do understand cryptography
are very good at it
and make things easier for the rest of us,
assuming we follow the rules correctly.
So let's start by talking about the security risks
associated with broken cryptography.
First and most common is the use
of broken cryptographic routines.
Now the term broken is a little overloaded here.
When I say broken, most often it means
that the algorithm has been cracked,
theoretically can be cracked,
or has a flaw that has been identified.
Many developers implement an algorithm for encryption,
hashing, or digital signatures that they have used before
but it may no longer be considered safe.
The mitigation for these flaws
is quite simply to use the latest and greatest algorithms
that serve the current and possibly future purposes.
Now you don't need to be bleeding edge
but you do need to use algorithms
that are not yet cracked and I do mean not yet.
There is a risk that cracking
will be possible in the future for any algorithm.
So you also need to keep tabs on the algorithms that you use
and their acceptance by the industry.
Ultimately, upgrading is needed.
One thing to note, closely associated here
is choosing the wrong algorithm.
Say you need to hash passwords,
you could use SHA-2 from a pure crypto perspective.
However, it is too fast of an algorithm
and opens you up for brute force attacks.
Instead, consider something like bcrypt.
That being said, ensure you are also using
the right algorithm for the use case.
Second, there is a case where developers misuse
or misunderstand the algorithms that they are using.
Things like initialization vectors, salt, nonce,
and other parameters have valid places
in certain crypto algorithms and should not be ignored.
In addition, often key sizes can fall into this arena
because insufficient key size can ruin a great algorithm.
This can lead to cases where the algorithms
are no longer as safe as they should be
because the implementation was not correct.
The mitigation for these flaws
is to ensure you are using the algorithms correctly.
If you don't know, ask.
I have yet to meet a developer who knows everything.
As such, it's perfectly okay and honestly advisable
to be a little humble and ask questions.
Misusing algorithms can be as dangerous
relatively as not using them at all.
Of course, there's a little exaggeration there.
But opening yourself up to rainbow attacks
because you don't understand salt is a pretty bad flaw
that could be solved with a simple question.
One that honestly bothers me
is inappropriately implemented crypto algorithms.
There are some developers that feel
that they know crypto well enough
to implement the algorithm's more efficiently.
I won't say that they fail more often than not,
but leading crypo and security researchers
usually argue that they do.
The possibility of a closed homegrown implementation
having a flaw is too great for most companies to accept.
The mitigation for this is quite simply
never roll your own crypto.
I call this the first rule of crypo club
because in my mind, it's a no-brainer.
I feel like I have a good grasp on crypto
and I would never in a million years
roll my own crypto for a customer or an employer.
There are good libraries out there that you can use.
The moral of this whole story is ask questions.
If you wonder if an algorithm is cracked, ask.
If you wonder if an algorithm is poor, ask.
If you need to understand an API, ask.
You get the rest of the picture.